Sunitha Chandamarakshan
Senior IT Project Manager with Cloud & HealthCare Experience|
Emerging Backend Developer | Python & Machine Learning
Greater Tampa Bay Area

Summary
With a robust background in IT program and project management,
I’ve led cross-functional teams to deliver impactful, enterprise-scale
solutions — including cloud migrations (PCF to AWS) and the rollout
of shared Kubernetes platforms at Evernorth Health Services. My
career so far has been defined by aligning technology strategy with
business goals, driving innovation, and leading high-stakes initiatives
in complex, regulated environments like healthcare.

Now, I’m channeling that experience into a career pivot toward
backend development and machine learning. I’m actively deepening
my technical skills in Python, APIs, cloud infrastructure, and ML
frameworks — building projects that reflect both my passion for
clean, efficient backend systems and data-driven intelligence.

With certifications in SAFe Agile, AWS, and AI from Google and MIT,
I stay on the cutting edge of technology — blending my leadership
experience with hands-on development. Whether architecting
backend systems or training ML models, I thrive at the intersection of
engineering and strategy.
I’m especially interested in opportunities that combine my product
mindset, system thinking, and emerging technical skills to build tools
and platforms that scale with impact.

Experience

Evernorth Health Services
Information Technology Project Management - Senior Advisor
January 2023 - Present (3 years 1 month)
Tampa, Florida, United States

PCF Migration Project:
- Spearheaded the migration of application patterns from PCF to AWS,
employing diverse configurations such as EKS, Redis, MongoAtlas, and
Kafkadirectly contributing to the technological investments for Evernorth
- Partnered with AWS in running many experienced based acceleration (EBAs)
for the AWS migrations resulting in reduced migration timeline by 30%
- As part of this migration, shared kubernetes capabilities were delivered
paving the pathway for enterprise wide adoption of kubernetes.
API Security Platform Project:
- Onboarded a new vendor tool (NoName) for API discovery and to gather
continuous API telemetry.
- Collaborated with Enterprise Architects for architecture recommendations;
vendor management team for service agreements; project sponsors and
stakeholders to come to conclusion on value driven outcome; infrastructure
engineers on operational readiness of the new product.

Cigna Healthcare
Information Technology Project Management - Senior Advisor
December 2019 - January 2023 (3 years 2 months)
Tampa, Florida, United States

RHEL,MQ and Fuse Migration Project:
- Directed a multidisciplinary team in the strategic overhaul of Product Health,
Focusing on Tech Debt, refactoring and architecture investment, which
resulted in saving millions of dollars in extended licensing support.
- Led the Linux and middleware team as a Release Train Engineer for
enterprise wide RHEL migration (migrating from ver 6 to 7 or 8), MQ server
and Client migrations (migrating from Ver 8 to 9) and Fuse migration (migration
from Fuse Fabric 6.3 to Fuse 7 on openshift)

Aspire Enterprise Resource Group (Volunteer):
- Co-lead for Aspire Enterprise Resource Group - iNetwork program. An
innovation marketplace that matches volunteers to advance innovation through
idea prototyping and testing.
- Pioneered the iNetwork initiative, a grassroot innovation platform for
intrapreneurs, fostering a culture of creativity and technological advancement
within the organization.

Note: Contract Employee to Cigna between Dec 2019 - Jun 2021 before being
absorbed as a full timer. Employee of iTech solutions at this time.

Dynamic Biz Solutions
Associate Project Manager
August 2015 - June 2018 (2 years 11 months)
Hartford, Connecticut Area

Inquiry Tool Project:
- Spearheaded the development of an inquiry tool for a leading steel company
in Pittsburgh, enhancing operational efficiency by 40% through the adoption of
Agile methodologies over traditional waterfall processes.
- Orchestrated cross-functional teams, including developers, quality
assurances, and business analysts, to define project scope, objectives, and
requirements, resulting in the project's completion ahead of schedule and
under budget.
- Implemented risk management strategies that identified and mitigated
project risks, issues, and dependencies, ensuring a 15% reduction in system
downtimes and project delays.

Tech Mahindra (formerly Mahindra Satyam)
6 years 4 months
Systems Analyst
May 2006 - February 2009 (2 years 10 months)
Bloomington/Normal, Illinois Area

Supported the Auto Applications project of State Farm Insurance. Worked on
PL/1, COBOL & DB2 to support the Mainframe side of the application. Worked
on IBM Websphere & WSDL contracts to support the web services part of the
application.
Software Engineer
November 2002 - May 2006 (3 years 7 months)
Hyderabad Area, India
Supported the conversion of three existing systems into one. Worked on
COBOL, DB2 & JCL. Also worked on Javascript and HTML for creating State
Farm Forms.

Education
Cornell University
Applied Machine Learning and AI, Machine Learning · (February 2025 - June
2025)

MIT Professional Education
Artificial Intelligence: Implications for Business Strategy, Artificial
Intelligence · (July 2024 - October 2024)

Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani
Master of Business Administration - MBA, Finance, General · (2016 - 2018)

Osmania University
Computer Science, Biochemistry, Chemistry and Computer
Applications · (1999 - 2002)


